Dialog update spec with design (#755)
ni/nimble: packages/nimble-components/src/dialog/specs/README.md

        -   Should the messages be arbitrary content provided by the user, or should we have an API around providing message(s) with a specified severity, icon, color, etc?
        -   What, if any, is the overlap between these messages and a future `<nimble-banner>` component?
        -   Do we allow multiple messages at the same time? If so, is there a maximum height the messages can consume within the dialog?
-   Close button
    -   Included in initial styling pass: No
    -   Rationale: There isn't a pressing need for this component yet, and there are a number of questions that need to be resolved prior to adding the button:
        -   Should the API allow a client to slot any arbitrary buttons, including a close button, or should we only support one single button that closes the dialog?
        -   What control do we need to give over the close button? Do we need a way for the user to explicitly disable it?
        -   Should there be any connection between the `prevent-dismiss` attribute on the dialog and the visibility or disabled state of the close button?
-   Content

>     -   Included in initial styling pass: Yes

Reviewer: do we figure out / have open questions about a dialog max height and if overflow content should scroll or the dialog grows to fit content?

Author: I talked with Brandon, and he has a max-height for the dialog now. The dialog grows to fit the content until the max-height is reached, and then it will scroll. There are some open questions about the styling details when the content is scrollable, but I think those can get resolved in the implementation.

I'll update the spec with this new information.

>     -   Rationale: This is critical for using a dialog

Reviewer: Based on the comment below "The primary content of the dialog. If multiple elements are provided for this slot, they will be stacked vertically with padding between them."

I think it would be worth calling out the additional style details here. Sounds like the default content container will be flex layout direction column with a defined gap?

-   Footer buttons
    -   Included in initial styling pass: Yes
    -   Rationale: These buttons are required for interacting with the dialog.
    -   Additional details:

>         -   The footer container will have a `flex` layout to allow a client to easily align buttons in the appropriate place within the footer. There will not be explicit slots within the dialog for the various alignments of buttons in the footer.

Reviewer 2: Could you clarify what layout we expect the dialog will do and what layout clients can override? e.g. 
1. Will the dialog put all the buttons on the right by default? 
2. If so, will it allow a button to be placed on the left (like the Back button in the design spec)? 
3. Will it provide standard horizontal padding?
4. Will it ensure OK buttons are always to the right of Cancel buttons?

(I think I know the answer to some of these, just want to make it explicit)

        -   Should there be any connection between the `prevent-dismiss` attribute on the dialog and the visibility or disabled state of the close button?
-   Content
    -   Included in initial styling pass: Yes
    -   Rationale: This is critical for using a dialog
    -   Additional details:
        -   The content is a `flex` layout container that allows a clinet to easily place multiple items within the dialog.
        -   Content will have a `flex-direction` of `column` so that content stacks vertically.
        -   A `gap` will be provided so that that mutliple content elements have appropriate spacing between them.
-   Footer buttons
    -   Included in initial styling pass: Yes
    -   Rationale: These buttons are required for interacting with the dialog.
    -   Additional details:
        -   The footer is a `flex` layout container that allows a client to easily place buttons at the bottom of the dialog.
        -   If no content is slotted in the footer, the horizontal separator between the footer and content will be removed. The height of the footer will also be adjusted to align with the visual design spec.

>         -   If content is slotted in the footer, it will automatially be placed with the correct horizontal spacing between the vertical line and the bottom of the dialog.

Reviewer 2: I could be missing something but this sentence is unclear to me. Is the intent that the dialog will specify both:
1. the horizontal spacing between the buttons 
2. the vertical spacing that separates the buttons from the line above and the bottom of the dialog below?

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10500124/192563854-700bb089-ed33-4dea-a9f3-8c4ec73be101.png)

If so then we could change it to something like this:

```suggestion
        -   If content is slotted in the footer, it will automatically be placed with the correct vertical spacing between the horizontal line and the bottom of the dialog and with the correct horizontal spacing around content items.
```

Author: Apparently I was having trouble with vertical vs horizontal yesterday 🤦

-   ESC key closes the dialog
-   The native dialog defaults to the a11y role `dialog` (but we will override this, as discussed below)

> 

Reviewer: How will the subtitle interact from aria? I could kinda imagine it being part of the title and should be read out as part of the aria-lable.
I could also maybe see it as part of the aria-describedby.
Maybe it's something to nail down in implementation but we should make sure it's used appropriately somehow.

> The role `alertdialog` should be used for most modal dialogs (since they demand the user's attention), so we will set it by default. When role is `alertdialog`, `aria-describedby` should be set to reference the element containing the alert message. Therefore, `aria-describedby` will reference the `content` provided by the dialog. Similarly, `aria-labelledby` should point to an element that is the title for the dialog, so it will reference the `title` slot of the dialog. Therefore, a client should always provide an appropriate title for their dialog, even if `header-hidden` is `true`.

Reviewer: nit: Can you emphasize the difference between what happen internally automatically by the nimble-dialog and what the user is responsible for? I was initially confused thinking it was describing that the client had to provide the aria-* attributes.

Author: I rewrote this section.

> The role `alertdialog` should be used for most modal dialogs (since they demand the user's attention), so we will set it by default. When role is `alertdialog`, `aria-describedby` should be set to reference the element containing the alert message. Therefore, `aria-describedby` will reference the `content` provided by the dialog. Similarly, `aria-labelledby` should point to an element that is the title for the dialog, so it will reference the `title` slot of the dialog. Therefore, a client should always provide an appropriate title for their dialog, even if `header-hidden` is `true`.

Author: I did a bit of reading and experimentation, and here are my findings:
- Based on W3C [here](https://w3c.github.io/aria/#alertdialog) and [here](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/alertdialog/), an alertdialog should have a description set. I don't see anything in the W3C docs about using `aria-details` instead.
- It doesn't seem like setting `aria-describedby` to complex content is a good idea because the accessibility tree combines all the text together with no indication of the context. For example, the description for the delete test result confirmation would be "Are you sure you want to permanently delete the selected result? Delete all attachments associated with the selected result" with no indication that the second sentence was associated with a checkbox.
- `aria-describedby` is optional for the `dialog` role. Specifically, the [docs](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/dialogmodal/) say:
    > It is advisable to omit specifying aria-describedby if the dialog content includes semantic structures, such as lists, tables, or multiple paragraphs, that need to be perceived in order to easily understand the content, i.e., if the content would be difficult to understand when announced as a single unbroken string.

Based on this, I lean towards changing the default role of the `nimble-dialog` to be `dialog` rather than `alertdialog`. I think for something as generic as we are trying to create in nimble, there are too many assumptions (such as the content only being text) associated with the `alertdialog`. Then, we could automatically set the `aria-label` based on the title/subtitle, but we would not set the `aria-description`.

Any thoughts or objections to changing the role of the `nimble-dialog` to `dialog`? @m-akinc @rajsite

> The role `alertdialog` should be used for most modal dialogs (since they demand the user's attention), so we will set it by default. When role is `alertdialog`, `aria-describedby` should be set to reference the element containing the alert message. Therefore, `aria-describedby` will reference the `content` provided by the dialog. Similarly, `aria-labelledby` should point to an element that is the title for the dialog, so it will reference the `title` slot of the dialog. Therefore, a client should always provide an appropriate title for their dialog, even if `header-hidden` is `true`.

Reviewer: I think your evaluation makes sense that using the `dialog` role is acceptable since they are allowed to be modal and have complex content. Maybe a future enhancement could be making it easier to configure it as `alertdialog` but a default of `dialog` today seems fine.

> The role `alertdialog` should be used for most modal dialogs (since they demand the user's attention), so we will set it by default. When role is `alertdialog`, `aria-describedby` should be set to reference the element containing the alert message. Therefore, `aria-describedby` will reference the `content` provided by the dialog. Similarly, `aria-labelledby` should point to an element that is the title for the dialog, so it will reference the `title` slot of the dialog. Therefore, a client should always provide an appropriate title for their dialog, even if `header-hidden` is `true`.

Author: I've updated the spec. We'll use a role of `dialog` with `modal: true` (we get both of those for free with the `dialog` element), and we'll only set `aria-labelledby`. We will not do anything with `aria-describedby`.

-   When modal, the dialog will restrict focus to the elements on the dialog.
-   Upon closing a modal dialog, focus will return to the element that had focus before the dialog was opened.
-   ESC key closes the dialog
-   The native dialog defaults to the a11y role `dialog`
-   The native dialog automatically sets `modal: true` when opened using `showModal`

The role `dialog` with `modal: true` will automatically be applied to the `dialog` element, so the `nimble-dialog` will not have any custom logic or configuration to modify this behavior. The `nimble-dialog`'s template will automatically label the `dialog` element by setting `aria-labelledby` to the ID of the element containing the `title` and `subtitle` slots. As a result, if a client provides a title and/or subtitle, their dialog will automatically be labelled. This should be done even if the client is setting `header-hidden = true` to ensure that the dialog is accesible.

> The `nimble-dialog` will not configure `aria-describedby` on the `dialog` element because according to the WAI-ARIA guidelines, it is advisable to omit applying `aria-describedby` when the content would be difficult to understand when announced as a single unbroken string. Therefore, the `nimble-dialog` will not make assumptions about the content of the dialog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `nimble-dialog` will not configure `aria-describedby` on the `dialog` element because according to [the WAI-ARIA guidelines](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/dialogmodal/), it is advisable to omit applying `aria-describedby` when the content would be difficult to understand when announced as a single unbroken string. Therefore, the `nimble-dialog` will not make assumptions about the content of the dialog.
```
